[IMP] scss: add section, improve preexisting content (#3093)
odoo/documentation: content/contributing/development/coding_guidelines.rst

.. _contributing/development/js_guidelines:

> Javascript and (S)CSS

Reviewer: Following the style you used in `css_variables.rst`.
```suggestion
Javascript, CSS and SCSS
```

> You may also have a look at existing API in Javascript by looking Javascript

Author: Not related to this PR but I could apply the change...  @odoo/rd-framework-js ?

Besides being more compact, this approach ease maintenance because limits the need of renaming when changes at the DOM occur.

SCSS Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our standard convention is `$o-[root]-[element]-[property]-[modifier]`:

* `$o-` - prefix;
* `[root]` - either the component **or** the module name (components take priority);
* `[element]` - optional identifier for inner elements;
* `[property]` - the property/behavior defined by the variable;
* `[modifier]` - optional modifier;

.. code-block:: scss

   $o-block-color: value;
   $o-block-title-color: value;
   $o-block-title-color-hover: value;

.. _scss/scoped-scss-var:

SCSS Variables (scoped)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These variables are declared within blocks and are not accessible from the outside.
Our standard convention is `$-[variable name]`.

.. code-block:: html

   .o_element {
      $-inner-gap: compute-something;

      margin-right: $-inner-gap;

      .o_element_child {
         margin-right: $-inner-gap * 0.5;
      }
   }

.. seealso::
   Variables scope on `SASS Documentation website <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/variables#scope>`__

SCSS Mixins and Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Our standard convention is `o-[name]`. Use descriptive names. When naming functions, use verbs in the imperative form (eg. `get`, `make`, `apply`...).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our standard convention is `o-[name]`. Use descriptive names. When naming functions, use verbs in the imperative form (e.g.: `get`, `make`, `apply`...).
```

> Name optional argument as :ref:`scoped variables <scss/scoped-scss-var>`, so `$-[argument]`

Reviewer 2: you're missing the word "form" here :)

      @return mix($-inverse, $-color, $-amount);
   }

.. seealso::
   - Mixins on `SASS Documentation website <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/mixin>`__
   - Functions on `SASS Documentation website <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/function>`__

.. _scss/css-var:

CSS Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Odoo the use of CSS variables is strictly DOM-related. Use them for **contextually** adapt design and layout.

Our standard convention is BEM, so `--[root]__[element]-[property]--[modifier]`.

* `[root]` - either the component **or** the module name (components take priority);
* `[element]` - optional identifier for inner elements;
* `[property]` - the property/behavior defined by the variable;
* `[modifier]` - optional modifier;

.. code-block:: scss

   .o_kanban_record {
      --KanbanRecord-width: value;
      --KanbanRecord__picture-border: value;
      --KanbanRecord__picture-border--active: value;
   }

   // Adapt the component when rendered in another context.
   .o_form_view {
      --KanbanRecord-width: another-value;
      --KanbanRecord__picture-border: another-value;
      --KanbanRecord__picture-border--active: another-value;
   }

> Use of CSS Variables

Author: Nope, these are **use** conventions, prev. charapter is about **naming** conventions

--------------------

In Odoo the use of CSS variables is strictly DOM-related, meaning that are used for **contextually** adapt design and layout rather than to manage the global design-system.
The typical use is the definition of components' properties that may adapt in specific context or when some circumstances occur.

We define these properties into the component's main block, providing fallback used as defaults.

.. code-block:: scss
   :caption: :file:`my_component.scss`

   .o_MyComponent {
      color: var(--MyComponent-color, #313131);
   }

.. code-block:: scss
   :caption: :file:`my_dashboard.scss`

   .o_MyDashboard {
      // Adapt the component in this context only
      --MyComponent-color: #017e84;
   }

.. seealso::
   - CSS variables on `MDN web docs <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties>`_

CSS and SCSS Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Despite being apparently similar, `CSS` and `SCSS` variables behave very differently.

> The main difference is that, while `SCSS` variables are **imperative** and compiled away, `CSS` variables are **declarative** and included in the final output.

Author: "compiled away" is the formula sass doc uses.. I'd prefer to keep that
